---
scapolite:
    class: rule
    version: '0.51'
id: SV-103097
id_namespace: mil.disa.Windows-Server-2019-STIG
title: Windows Server 2019 Deny access to this computer from the network user right
    on domain-joined member servers must be configured to prevent access from highly
    privileged domain accounts and local accounts and from unauthenticated access
    on all systems.
rule: <see below>
description: <see below>
applicability:
  - system: org.scapolite.xccdf.applicability
    weight: 10.0
    severity: medium
implementations:
  - relative_id: F-99255r1
    description: <see below>
checks:
  - relative_id: '01'
    automations:
      - system: http://oval.mitre.org/XMLSchema/oval-definitions-5
        idref: oval:mil.disa.stig.windows:def:2120
        href: U_MS_Windows_Server_2019_V1R3_STIG_SCAP_1-2_Benchmark-oval.xml
crossrefs:
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-000213
    relation: ''
  - system: org.scapolite.unknown
    idref: "\n            "
    relation: ''
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-000213
    relation: ''
history:
  - version: r1
    action: created
    description: WN19-MS-000080
    internal_comment: ''
---


## /rule

Windows Server 2019 Deny access to this computer from the network user right on domain-joined member servers must be configured to prevent access from highly privileged domain accounts and local accounts and from unauthenticated access on all systems.

## /description

[**VulnDiscussion**]{.separator type='STIG'}

Inappropriate granting of user rights can provide system, administrative, and other high-level capabilities.

The "Deny access to this computer from the network" user right defines the accounts that are prevented from logging on from the network.

In an Active Directory Domain, denying logons to the Enterprise Admins and Domain Admins groups on lower-trust systems helps mitigate the risk of privilege escalation from credential theft attacks, which could lead to the compromise of an entire domain.

Local accounts on domain-joined systems must also be assigned this right to decrease the risk of lateral movement resulting from credential theft attacks.

The Guests group must be assigned this right to prevent unauthenticated access.

[**Documentable**]{.separator type='STIG'}

false

## /implementations/0/description

Configure the policy value for Computer Configuration >> Windows Settings >> Security Settings >> Local Policies >> User Rights Assignment >> "Deny access to this computer from the network" to include the following:

Domain Systems Only:
- Enterprise Admins group
- Domain Admins group
- "Local account and member of Administrators group" or "Local account" (see Note below)

All Systems:
- Guests group

Note: These are built-in security groups. "Local account" is more restrictive but may cause issues on servers such as systems that provide failover clustering.
